---
layout: default
parent: People Ops
title: Evaluation
has_children: true
---

# Evaluation

**Purpose**

To outline a clear, fair, and replicable process for performance
evaluation at Countable.

**Scope**

Covers our process for self-evaluation, technical tracks and their
levels, and the dismissal process.

The purpose of this policy is to "get and keep the right people on the
bus" \[1\].

This page lists "job levels". Each employee should be assigned a level
based on the behaviours listed below from levels 1 to 4.

## Performance Evaluation Overview

We've created a replicable process for self-evaluation which will
continue to be developed and improved. This will be completed twice a
year, roughly in July and in January. A copy of the related evaluation
spreadsheet will be assigned to you as a Trello card in Admin and
Operations at this time.

This is meant to be a self-reflective process, not a stressful one.
Independently reflect on your work at Countable over the previous six
months and try to answer as honestly as you can.

Here are the components to be tracked:

1.  **OKR score**: What is your average score the last 6 months? *Note:*
    The expectation is that you're reflecting on your goal-setting process,
    not that your score is high. OKRs are aspirational, and we're aiming
    for about 70% overall- some months you might get a zero and that's ok.
3.  What do you score in the **general criteria** for your level? You
    can assign yourself 0, 0.5, or 1. (In order to progress to the next
    level, you must achieve at least 75% on these)
3.  What do you score in the **guild-specific criteria** for your level?
    (You must achieve these fully to progress to the next level)
4.  What is your **biggest opportunity for improvement** (getting to the
    next level, career-wise), and **your top strength** that we should
    support?

Provide this information to your manager for feedback, and they will
share any adjustments and their perspective on your answers. Your
manager should indicate their perspective on your biggest opportunity
for improvement and strength as well.

### General Criteria

For each job level, the general criteria are roughly grouped into three
broader categories of skills:

  - **PD** - personal development
  - **CM** - communication
  - **PM** - project management

### Technical Track Criteria

  - DevOps
  - Developer
  - UX / Design
  - Operations

The track your performance evaluation is based on is the one most
closely corresponding to your main job responsibilities. You are free to
be a part of of other guilds, of course, but you will only be
self-evaluating based on tasks from your main track.

Please only fill the level you expect, and then if you pass (75%), do the level above. If you fail, the level below.

## Evaluation Questions by Job Level

This section is used in the Process above for self-evaluation.

### Level 1

An internship or Junior. Evaluation of fit to Countable's culture, work
style and technical needs.

See [Self Evaluation Questions here](LEVEL_1_QUESTIONS.md).

## Level 2

Considered a permanent position. Works directly with clients and other
stakeholders on delivering results, only escalating as needed.

See [Self Evaluation Questions here](LEVEL_2_QUESTIONS.md).

## Level 3

Owns a client relationship, leads in a technical area within a guild, or
takes on another area of responsibility.

See [Self Evaluation Questions here](LEVEL_3_QUESTIONS.md).

## Level 4

Owns a guild, major client group or customer base (business line).

See [Self Evaluation Questions here](LEVEL_4_QUESTIONS.md).

## Level 5

Leads the company's vision, mission, and high-level goals.

See [Self Evaluation Questions here](LEVEL_5_QUESTIONS.md).

-----
References and further reading:

\[1\] Jim Collins, "Good to Great".

\[2\] [RoadmapSH](https://roadmap.sh/guides/levels-of-seniority) - this
is helpful specifically for devs.
